Matt and I headed to New Orleans on Friday.  We drove so I was able to do some reading on the trip.  Of course I forgot my book light so I couldn't read on the way down after it got dark.  I did pick one up before we headed back so I could read.  We also ended up giving a ride to a player that needed to be dropped off in Houston.  The tournament started off fairly lousy with me losing the first four rounds in a row.  I rallied a bit in the afternoon and won three games.  I was only expected to win about 6 games and I ended up winning 9 out of 20 overall.  My rating increased by 32 points because of this.  I even beat the number one rated player in my division and had my first 500 point game during a tournament.  Matt had a bad streak of losing 7 games in a row, but made a comeback and ended up winning half his games.  We didn't get out to do much there because it was pretty much playing in the tournament most of the day.  On the way out, we got stuck in traffic in Houston and that delayed us.  We were heading to meet Josh for lunch and he had to wait over an hour for us.

We got back around midnight on Monday/Tuesday and I had to work the next day.  It was a very long day as I had to get a million things done.  I ended up staying at school until 8:45 p.m.  That was more than a 12 hour day for me.  I got to school early today hoping that I'd have a bunch of students come for the launch of the book of the month club.  A whopping two students showed up and neither one could check out the book because they had other books that were way overdue.  Maybe some of the teachers will send more students down tomorrow.  I received a grant to start the club and I ordered 12 copies of 6 different books to promote during the year.  The first book is The Graveyard Book by Neil Gaiman. 
 I continued the cleaning and organization kick this weekend.  I finally got the loft area and my craft closet finished.  Much of the stuff that didn't have any place to go is in the office/workout room.  I guess I'll get to that some day.  Tonight I cleaned the kitchen and living room though I still need to mop and do dishes.

I finally got my speeding ticket issue resolved.  I was going to mail it in but Matt said he would take it to the courthouse for me today.  He took it but was told that I had to give them a copy of my insurance as well.  There's nothing in the paperwork I received that I would have to resubmit my insurance as I already submitted it online.  He brought me lunch today and shelved books and then went back with the copy of my insurance.  He is playing Scrabble and watching football at a friend's house tonight.  Perhaps that's why I was somewhat productive this evening.

Well it's bed time for me.  My cat is curled up on the bed next to me and the dogs are somewhat sleeping in their beds on the floor.
Posted by Annabel at 10:40 PM 1 comment:
Friday, January 09, 2015
It's Damn Cold
I really shouldn't complain after having lived in the Texas Panhandle for 41 years and suffering through many brittle, cold winters.  It hasn't even hit freezing yet - it started around 43 degrees this morning and was 36 when I left school.  I guess I've become acclimated to a warmer climate because it feels miserably cold to me.  At least it shouldn't last too long.  It's supposed to get back in the 50's next week and possibly the 60's the following week.

Tomorrow I may just stay in bed all day.  Matt wanted to go to church at 5:30, but I may just let him go on his own and I'll go sometime on Sunday when it starts to warm up.  I have a lot to work on this weekend.  I still have house cleaning/organization to work on as well as the online book club project.
I got more new books for the library today.  I love it when I get to have the first look and some of the books I ordered.  I just wish I had more time to actually read some of them. 